Hey, there.
Let's now build the side bar and the navigation of our app
and so, we will once more, build a really cool,
hover effect, that I already showed you before
and for that, I'm gonna show you how to use transform
with scaleY and how to transition, multiple properties
with different settings, plus, you're gonna learn
how and why to use the current color variable
and how to use even more
advanced flexbox alignment techniques,
so, let's get to work.
So, the side bar, that I'm talking about
is of course, this one here,
so, up here, we have our navigation
with this nice hover effect that I was talking about
and then down here, we just have
some copyright text, okay?
So, that is what we're gonna do in this lecture
and as always, let's start with the HTML Markup,
so, we have our nav here,
let's give it some space here
and then, let's start.
So, the navigation as usual, is an unordered list
and I'm calling it side nav,
so, for the side navigation of course,
then, in here, each of the navigation elements
is of course, in list item
and it has the name, side nav, which is the blog
and then, the element name is simply, item
and then, in here, of course, the anchor element,
so, side nav link with the href, going to nowhere
and then, in here, we finally have our icon and our text,
so, we do this exactly the same way we did it before,
so, svg with the class side nav icon
and then in here, we use the use element,
so, xlink href and then, we want our sprite svg
and now, let's take a look at which icon we actually want,
so, the first one, is this house
then, we have the flight then, the key and then,
here, this map,
so, first up is the one called icon home
and so, remember all we have to do is to now
set the hash icon here and that's it.
Close it and here we go,
so, again, this is the best way of using svg's in HTML's
by only including one svg file,
which is this sprite, here,
so, we include this, here and here and up here,
but this is all the same file,
so we only have one HTTP request,
so, that's the whole goal of having a sprite image.
Okay, so, this one is the icon home
and so, let's just add a span element here very quickly,
just to put the text here, okay?
So, this one is for a hotel
and so, this is how, one list item here, looks like
in the navigation, so let's grab a copy of this
and make four of them, all right,
so, the next one is for the flight
then, car rental and tours
and so, let's now get the icons,
so, icon aircraft takeoff, well, that's a long one,
then the car rental was the key, so it's just, key
and the last one, is probably just called map,
so, here we go and map,
so, that is the markup for the navigation
and now let's just put the legal text right under this one,
so, it's just a div and I'm calling it legal
and then, just some text here,
so, copy and this is an HTML entity,
which I showed you before, 2017 by trillo,
all rights reserved.
But once again, I want to mention here,
that you can feel completely free to use this project,
like in your portfolio or to show off for potential
clients, or something like that,
what you can't do though, is to claim that
you designed it by yourself, okay?
But it's fine if you use it for your own projects
or you can change some stuff and then do your own app
maybe, using this interface,
so, all of that is no problem, okay?
But, with that being said, let's now check out our webpage
and whoa, so, here we go,
these icons are really huge, as you can see
and what you can also see, is that, now here,
the other side of the content,
so, the hotel view stretched all the way here,
on to the bottom of this container,
and remember, that's because we're using flexbox, here,
to put this one, here, on side of the hotel view
and since the default of aligned items,
this stretched, well, the will both stretch,
all the way they can and so, automatically,
when you increase the height of one of the columns, here,
the height of the other column increases as well
and so, that's great, without
having to write any extra quote,
this functionality here, works just fine
and usually, that's exactly what we want.
So, moving on to our CSS, now,
let's write all the selectors, such as we've been doing,
so, first we write the selectors and then we start
filling it with some quote,
so, side navigation
so, what do we have here,
we have the nav item,
the link,
let me see what else,
so, item, link and icon,
okay, and then, down here,
we have the legal text
and since, it's a completely new block
or a new component, let's add a new comment,
just like this
and since we're here, let's actually already style this text
so, font size, 1.2 rem.
The text should be aligned to the center.
I want some padding of 2.5 rem, here
and finally, I also want some color,
so, let's add it here, close to the text properties
and the color that I want
is some nice, light gray
and it's this one here, so the darkest of them,
so that it makes a nice contrast
with the really dark background.
So, that is the legal text, let's now just
very quickly decrease the size of these huge icons
in the navigation, so that
it doesn't look that crazy anymore
so, we say width, and let's use 175 rem
and of course, the same for the height,
so, usually, we size these icons here, in svg
as squares, okay?
So, let's take a look now, and yeah.
So, that looks much better,
of course, there's a lot of formatting to do here, still
but we can do that in a bit,
well actually, there's an icon here, missing.
Let's check that one out,
so, ah okay.
The icon here, is twice
so, now it should be here.
Yeah, there we are.
Okay, so now, before we actually format,
this navigation part here, let's actually finish
the formatting of this entire side bar here,
because there's still, something left to do
and for that, let's first increase the height,
here, of this hotel view,
to pretend that, there's already a lot of content here,
so, that it's approximately, this height here
and later, we of course, will then remove that height,
so, component and actually, it's in the layout here,
so, it's in the hotel view
and we can say height, let's say like,
something really huge, like 80 rem,
so, these two here, are just for testing purposes,
we're gonna remove them, later.
Test, and all right,
so now, it's huge, just so that
as it looks, as if there was already a lot of content.
Now, if you noticed here on the original,
this text, this legal text is pushed all the way, here,
to the bottom, okay
and I did that, because it's a great opportunity
to show you, yet another technique in flexbox, okay?
So, let me show you that.
So, let's think together, here.
Imagine that, this overall sidebar here,
would be a flex container and that this legal text
and this navigation here, were the flex items.
How would you then, create a lot of space, here
in between these two, so that the legal text
is pushed all the way to the bottom?
What do you think is the best way of achieving this?
Well, the justify content property set to space between,
sounds actually, perfect for that, right?
Now, this works along the main axis
and so, the main axis is usually,
from the left to the right, so like this.
Not from top to bottom but there is actually,
a solution for that, and that is to use flex direction
and so, right now, we're finally gonna use flex direction
with a really good use case for it, okay?
So, let's do that and so, all we have to do
is to come here, to the sidebar
set it to display flex, to say that it's a flex container
and then, say flex direction and set it to column
and now, we just change the direction of the main axis
from left to right, to top to bottom, okay?
Now without declaring anything else, here,
this will not change much, as you can see here.
Right, so it still looks the same,
but now, we are ready to use the justify content property
so, justify content, and we want it set to space between
and the result, is of course, that.
So, now, this legal text, is pushed
all the way to the bottom, while this here, stays at the top
and that's because, flexbox divides all the available
wide space between the elements
and in this case, there are only two elements
and so, therefore, one is pushed to one side,
and the other one is pushed to the other side.
Of course, we could also change it to other things,
so, let's do that here, in the def tools,
so, we could have space around, as always
and then it would look like this,
so, it would have half the space here on one side,
the other half here, on the other side
and then the same thing for the navigation,
but that's not what we want here, right?
We just want each one in a different corner,
so, space between, so all we have to do is reload
and here we go,
so, I hope that made a lot of sense to you, okay?
So, we had to change the flex direction from row to column,
so that we could use the justify content in a
different direction, than the one
that we were used to doing it, okay?
So, up here, for example, we used justify content
from the left to the right
and here, we used it from the top to the bottom,
because we rotate it to flex direction, okay
and so, that is a technique you should always
keep in mind, because it's one that can be really useful
for your own projects, as well.
All right, so, now all we have to do
is to style this navigation here,
because this looks like quite unfinished, yet, right?
And we're gonna leave that, to the next lecture
after a quick break.